# Templates for automated generation of teaching materials 

* Each of `manual/`, `notes/`, `rmarkdown/` and `slides/` contains the source files & the generated documents (pdf and/or html).
* See the sections below for the description of their content and instructions for replicating the document generation.
* All files are relative to the directory in the section heading. Therefore, when following the instructions, it is assumed the working directory has been set (in a terminal or in R(Studio)) to whatever the section heading is.
* Software requirements: R (4.1.0 or above) & RStudio (optional but recommended).

## manual/

* These are the questions & answers in separate files. They are primarily for comparison with the automated approaches in other sub-directories.
* Compiling `practical1_questions.tex` using your favourite TeX editor or in RStudio outputs `generated/practical1_questions.pdf`. Same for `practical1_solutions.tex`.
* Additional software requirements:
  - LaTeX distribution for pdf outputs, recommended to be installed via the R package [tinytex](https://cran.r-project.org/package=tinytex). 

## rmarkdown/

* These are the questions & answers generated from one single RMarkdown file `practical1.Rmd`.
* To obtain the outputs in `generated/`, do one of the following:
  - In an R(Studio) console, type `source("generate_rmarkdown.R")`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `Rscript generate_rmarkdown.R`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `make`; this utilises the `makefile` instead of `generate_rmarkdown.R`.
* Additional software requirements:
  - LaTeX distribution for pdf outputs, recommended to be installed via the R package [tinytex](https://cran.r-project.org/package=tinytex).
  - R package [rmarkdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rmarkdown).

## slides/

* These are slides with or without gaps generated from one single RMarkdown file `slides.Rmd`.
* To obtain the outputs in `generated/`, do one of the following:
  - In an R(Studio) console, type `source("generate_slides.R")`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `Rscript generate_slides.R`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `make`; this utilises the `makefile` instead of `generate_slides.R`.
* Additional software requirements:
  - LaTeX distribution for pdf outputs, recommended to be installed via the R package [tinytex](https://cran.r-project.org/package=tinytex).
  - R package [rmarkdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rmarkdown).

## notes/

* These are notes with or without solutions generated from the RMarkdown files within.
* To obtain the outputs in `completed/` and `gaps/`, do one of the following:
  - In an R(Studio) console, type `source("generate_notes.R")`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `Rscript generate_notes.R`.
  - In a Linux terminal, type `make`; this utilises the `makefile` instead of `generate_notes.R`.
* Additional software requirements:
  - LaTeX distribution for pdf outputs, recommended to be installed via the R package [tinytex](https://cran.r-project.org/package=tinytex).
  - R packages [rmarkdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rmarkdown) & [bookdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=bookdown).

# Previously

This repository was originally for similar materials from various sources. For legacy purposes, the instructions are kept below.

## previous/slides/
These are the actual slides presented at the [TALMO workshop](http://talmo.uk/dayMTFT2021.html). The beamer slides (pdf) & ioslides slides (html) are identical in their content. Together with the source code, they are provided here for the sake of completeness, and to showcase (R)markdown.

To generate them in a terminal, set the directory to `slides/`, then type `make`.

## previous/report/
These are templates for writing reports/articles in pdf, but without the option of switching between questions & answers. The content of the documents generated by using `rmarkdown.Rmd` & `rsweave.Rmd` is the same.

To generate them in RStudio, click the `knit` button and `compile PDF` button, for RMarkdown & RSweave, respectively.

## previous/misc/
These are various slides typed previously as an intro to RMarkdown & reproducibility.

To generate all the outputs in a terminal, set the directory to `misc/`, then type `make`.
